---
title: "muybridge"
date: 2017-12-01
color: "#FF0000"
draft: false
---

{{< vimeo 259870704 >}}

I made this patch after I researched Godard's *Histoire(s) du cinéma* and subsequently the history of film, which eventually led me to the beginnings of motion pictures and Eadweard Muybridge as one of the key figures. It's impressive how these early clips of animals and humans in motion still catch the eye - even in times of HFR movies and 60FPS games. 

The motion of a horse running, a bird flapping its wings, a person turning around, or walking up stairs, or wrestling, or dancing, or doing a handspring, or hammering - or a buffalo just being a buffalo, develops a presentness which is unique to these pictures.  A presentness that got lost over time, now that we are surrounded by pictures in motion: On TV, on our phones, on billboards to big to be taken seriously. 

Anyways, synced and with some color these films work pretty well combined with music. Below you can find a Max patch which you can feed audio input, which splits the audio into four bands and when a peak is detected can cause certain events: Adding color to the images, changing the number of images or selecting a new images as source. No videos are included in the patch you should be able to find some yourself. 

Also works with other sources than Muybridge. In the video above I used a scene from Buñuel and Dalí's *Un Chien Andalou*. Seemed more fitting to the mood of my music.

[GitHub repo](https://github.com/tuchella/muybridge)